header: Skip to content GitLab / Help Sign in / Register
Link: Skip to content
Link: Dashboard
List item:
Link:
List item: /
Textbox: Search GitLab
List item: Help
Link: Help
List item: Sign in / Register
Link: Sign in / Register
aside: Project navigation
List item: a11y-webring.club
Link: a11y-webring.club
List item: Project information
Link: Project information
List item: Repository
Link: Repository
List item: Issues 4 List Boards Service Desk Milestones
Link: Issues
List item: List
Link: Issues
List item: Boards
Link: Boards
List item: Service Desk
Link: Service Desk
List item: Milestones
Link: Milestones
List item: Merge requests 1
Link: Merge requests
List item: CI/CD
Link: CI/CD
List item: Deployments
Link: Deployments
List item: Packages and registries
Link: Packages and registries
List item: Monitor
Link: Monitor
List item: Analytics
Link: Analytics
List item: Wiki
Link: Wiki
List item: Snippets
Link: Snippets
Button: Toggle sidebar
nav: Breadcrumbs
List item: Byte Blaze
Link: Byte Blaze
List item: a11y-webring.club
Link: a11y-webring.club
List item: Issues
Link: Issues
List item: #21
Link: #21
main: Open Issue created 3 years ago by Byte Blaze Owner 1 of 3 checklist items completed Issue actions [Feature suggestion] Color theme slider Feature suggestion The color of the site is determined by three custom properties, theme-h, theme-s, and theme-l, which are used to create a hsl() color declaration. Modifying the theme-h custom property in the :root selector allows the entire site to adjusts its theme color. I think it would be fun to have a little input range slider that allows a visitor to tweak the color from 1 to 360°, and then store the value to local storage. Who would you like to work on this feature? I would like to work on this feature I would like the site maintainers to work on this feature Code of conduct I agree to follow this project's code of conduct 👍 0 👎 0 Drag your designs here or click to upload. Tasks 0 No tasks are currently assigned. Use tasks to break down this issue into smaller parts. Linked items 0 Link issues together to show that they're related. Learn more. Activity Sort or filter Byte Blaze assigned to @ericwbailey 3 years ago Byte Blaze added feature help wanted labels 3 years ago Please register or sign in to reply Assignee Byte Blaze Labels feature help wanted Milestone None Due date None Time tracking No estimate or time spent Confidentiality Not confidential Lock issue Unlocked 1 participant Reference: byteblaze/a11y-webring.club#21
Link: Byte Blaze
Button: Issue actions
Heading level 1: [Feature suggestion] Color theme slider
Heading level 3: Feature suggestion
Link:
Paragraph: The color of the site is determined by three custom properties, theme-h, theme-s, and theme-l, which are used to create a hsl() color declaration.
Paragraph: Modifying the theme-h custom property in the :root selector allows the entire site to adjusts its theme color. I think it would be fun to have a little input range slider that allows a visitor to tweak the color from 1 to 360°, and then store the value to local storage.
Heading level 3: Who would you like to work on this feature?
Link:
List item: I would like to work on this feature
Checkbox: on
List item: I would like the site maintainers to work on this feature
Checkbox: on
Heading level 3: Code of conduct
Link:
List item: I agree to follow this project's code of conduct
Checkbox: on
Button: 👍 0
Button: 👎 0
List item: Drag your designs here or click to upload.
Button: Drag your designs here or click to upload.
Paragraph: Drag your designs here or click to upload.
Link: click to upload
Heading level 5: Tasks
Button: Collapse tasks
Paragraph: No tasks are currently assigned. Use tasks to break down this issue into smaller parts.
Heading level 3: Linked items 0
Link:
Button: Collapse
Paragraph: Link issues together to show that they're related. Learn more.
Link: Learn more about linking issues
Heading level 2: Activity
Button: Sort or filter
List item: Byte Blaze assigned to @ericwbailey 3 years ago
Link: Byte Blaze
Link: Eric Bailey
Link: 3 years ago
List item: Byte Blaze added feature help wanted labels 3 years ago
Link: Byte Blaze
Link: feature
Link: help wanted
Link: 3 years ago
Link: register
Link: sign in
aside: issue
Button: Toggle sidebar
Link: Byte Blaze
Link: feature
Link: help wanted
Link:
Button: Copy Reference
