Link: Skip to accessible demo page
Paragraph:
Link: W3C Home
Link: WAI Home
Heading level 1: Accessible News Page - Before and After Demonstration
Paragraph: Improving a Web site using Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
List item: Overview
Link: Overview
List item: Home
Link: Home
List item: Current location: News Inaccessible: Inaccessible News Page Inaccessible News Page Report Accessible: Accessible News Page Accessible News Page Report Show Annotations
List item: Inaccessible: Inaccessible News Page Inaccessible News Page Report
Link: Inaccessible News Page
Link: Inaccessible News Page Report
List item: Accessible: Accessible News Page Accessible News Page Report
Link: Accessible News Page Report
Link: Show Annotations
Link: Tickets
Link: Survey
Link: Template
Paragraph: Demo starts here
Link: Skip to content (within demo page)
Link: Skip to navigation (within demo page)
Link:
Combobox: Explore Site by Topic:
Button: Go
Paragraph: Traffic: Construction work on Main Road
Paragraph: Today: Thursday 28 May 2026, Sunny Spells, 23°C
Heading level 2: Navigation menu:
List item: HOME
Link: HOME
List item: NEWS
List item: TICKETS
Link: TICKETS
List item: SURVEY
Link: SURVEY
Heading level 1: Citylights News
Heading level 2: Heat wave linked to temperatures
Paragraph: After three years of effort city scientists now agree that the primary cause of the 2003 heatwave was hot air from our air conditioning units. The study cost the city taxpayer under 10 million dollars said Prof. Steve 'Call me Stephen' Wahoonie, of City University Public Expenditure on Science dept. We had five top statisticians working on it: one to write the grant proposal, one to do the mathematical modelling, two to collaborate on the research paper, and one to hire a student to do the job.
Heading level 3: Tough Wahoonie
Paragraph: We soon realized that we were seeing a rise in temperatures every time a heatwave occurred. Also, the more air conditioning used, the bigger the heatwave. We knew it couldn't just be a coincidence, the match was 100%. Air conditioning was driving temperatures up, which in turn resulted in a heatwave, the Prof. explained. It all comes from the way that air conditioning works. Air conditioners produce cold air to go into the room but also hot air that's ducted away to the outside. We are recommending a new city ordinance restricting use of air conditioning to winter months, when the heat will come in useful.
Link: the way that air conditioning works
Heading level 3: Return To Sender
Paragraph: When questioned whether their results would be affected if air conditioners were found to be used on cold days, Wahoonie responded: we had one guy in the lab whining those kinds of questions. 'Why are you doing this? Why are there all those discrepencies in the department accounts?', but it was after we had written up the results. We later found that he took 40% of his sick days on Mondays or Fridays. How convenient. Some people have no shame.
Heading level 3: Air-Con Fact Finding Mission
Paragraph: Mrs B. Wahoonie investigates shipping hot air to Australia
Heading level 2: Man Gets Nine Months in Violin Case
Paragraph: As news of the conviction and sentencing of infamous violin thief Pasquale Ginkgo-Biloba reached city hall, Mayor Auberon 'Slim' Shadi stated that he was furious at the boring sentence handed down by the judge in the case, and is demanding a review of sentencing policy. This is not the first time that judges have come under fire for lenient sentencing in musical-instrument related cases. Last year's trombone forgery debacle also resulted in a formal rebuke from the Mayor.
Link: trombone forgery debacle
Heading level 2: Your Shout
Paragraph: Well I think the Mayor's getting all heated up about nothing. Remember that 15 months is pretty much a lifetime to someone like me. But hey, I'm just a baby, and can't even vote, so you can ignore my opinion. And I can tell you that I'm standing for mayor on a ticket of infant suffrage.
Paragraph: Clara F., 15 months, via email
Link: Clara F., 15 months
Heading level 2: Lack of Brains Hinders Research
Heading level 3: Brain donations at city hospital (by month)
Paragraph: There has been a significant drop in brain donations as a result of the successful 'Slow Traffic, Safe Streets' policy, say city doctors. Brain donations are essential said Dr. Liam Colluspid of Central Hospital, at a press conference yesterday. I must ask that the Mayor either dispenses with these road safety measures, or else that every concerned citizen should consider right now whether there are any brains they aren't making much use of at the moment, that they might like to drop off.
Paragraph: Copyright © 2012 W3C® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio)
Link: Copyright
Link: W3C
Link: MIT
Link: ERCIM
Link: Keio
Paragraph: Status: 20 February 2012 (see changelog) Editors: Shadi Abou-Zahra and the Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG). Developed with support from WAI-TIES and WAI-AGE projects, co-funded by the European Commission IST Programme. [see Acknowledgements]
Link: changelog
Link: Shadi Abou-Zahra
Link: Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG)
Link: WAI-TIES
Link: WAI-AGE
Link: Acknowledgements
Paragraph: [WAI Site Map] [Help with WAI Website] [Search] [Contacting WAI] Feedback welcome to wai-eo-editors@w3.org (a publicly archived list) or wai@w3.org (a WAI staff-only list).
Link: WAI Site Map
Link: Help with WAI Website
Link: Search
Link: Contacting WAI
Link: wai-eo-editors@w3.org
Link: wai@w3.org
Paragraph: Copyright © 2012 W3C® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C liability, trademark, document use and software licensing rules apply. Your interactions with this site are in accordance with our public and Member privacy statements.
Link: Copyright
Link: W3C
Link: MIT
Link: ERCIM
Link: Keio
Link: liability
Link: trademark
Link: document use
Link: software licensing
Link: public
Link: Member
