Link: Jump to beginning of the overview page
Paragraph:
Link: W3C Home
Link: WAI Home
Heading level 1: Overview Before and After Demonstration
Paragraph: Improving a Web site using Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
List item: Overview
List item: Home
Link: Home
Link: News
Link: Tickets
Link: Survey
Link: Template
Heading level 2: About the Demo
Paragraph: The Before and After Demonstration is a multi-page resource that shows an inaccessible website and a retrofitted version of this same website. Each web page includes inline annotations that can be activated to highlight some of the key accessibility barriers or repairs. Each web page is also accompanied by an evaluation report to inform the developers on the level of conformance to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
Link: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)
Paragraph: Note: This Demo is intended to illustrate some of the aspects of web accessibility. It does not cover every type of accessibility barrier or accessibility requirement. Some of the inaccessible Demo content may not be easily usable by all readers.
Heading level 2: Demo Contents
List item: Before - the inaccessible website Home Page - shows highlights and teasers News Page - shows news articles and text Tickets Page - shows tables and information Survey Page - shows forms and interaction Template - used to create all other pages
List item: Home Page - shows highlights and teasers
Link: Home Page
List item: News Page - shows news articles and text
Link: News Page
List item: Tickets Page - shows tables and information
Link: Tickets Page
List item: Survey Page - shows forms and interaction
Link: Survey Page
List item: Template - used to create all other pages
Link: Template
List item: After - the accessible website Home Page - shows highlights and teasers News Page - shows news articles and text Tickets Page - shows tables and information Survey Page - shows forms and interaction Template - used to create all other pages
List item: Home Page - shows highlights and teasers
Link: Home Page
List item: News Page - shows news articles and text
Link: News Page
List item: Tickets Page - shows tables and information
Link: Tickets Page
List item: Survey Page - shows forms and interaction
Link: Survey Page
List item: Template - used to create all other pages
Link: Template
Paragraph: Download: Entire Before and After Demo (BAD) as zip-archive (~600 kb). Note that the survey form requires a web server with PHP scripting to work; submitting the survey form will not work locally on your computer.
Link: Before and After Demo (BAD) as zip-archive (~600 kb)
Heading level 2: Using the Demo
Paragraph: This Demo serves a variety of purposes such as raising awareness on web accessibility or for providing practical examples for developers. Some of the common ways of using and navigating through the Demo include:
List item: Preparing presentations on web accessibility: Demonstrating practical examples during presentation is usually very effective. The description pages provide an overview of the accessibility barriers and features that are shown in the Demo. Together with the inaccessible and accessible Demo pages, concrete before and after examples can be explained during presentations.
List item: Learning about specific web accessibility barriers: Often web developers want to learn more about specific accessibility barriers. For example, what is the cause of a problem and how can it be fixed? While the evaluation reports provide detailed analysis, the inaccessible and accessible Demo pages provide implementation examples for developers to study.
List item: Understanding the implications of web accessibility barriers: In certain cases, the real issues for people with disabilities are not clear to developers or managers. Browsing through the inaccessible Demo pages using different browser configurations or assistive technologies (such as screen readers and magnifiers) helps highlight these issues. The accessible Demo pages can be browsed in the same manner to show the difference.
List item: Writing detailed reports of conformance evaluations: A well written evaluation report is key in the process of retrofitting websites for accessibility. It communicates the problems to managers and the developers who need to decide which solutions to implement. The evaluation reports of the Demo serve as a sample format for evaluators.
Paragraph: Status: 20 February 2012 (see changelog) Editors: Shadi Abou-Zahra and the Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG). Developed with support from WAI-TIES and WAI-AGE projects, co-funded by the European Commission IST Programme. [see Acknowledgements]
Link: changelog
Link: Shadi Abou-Zahra
Link: Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG)
Link: WAI-TIES
Link: WAI-AGE
Link: Acknowledgements
Paragraph: [WAI Site Map] [Help with WAI Website] [Search] [Contacting WAI] Feedback welcome to wai-eo-editors@w3.org (a publicly archived list) or wai@w3.org (a WAI staff-only list).
Link: WAI Site Map
Link: Help with WAI Website
Link: Search
Link: Contacting WAI
Link: wai-eo-editors@w3.org
Link: wai@w3.org
Paragraph: Copyright © 2012 W3C® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio), All Rights Reserved. W3C liability, trademark, document use and software licensing rules apply. Your interactions with this site are in accordance with our public and Member privacy statements.
Link: Copyright
Link: W3C
Link: MIT
Link: ERCIM
Link: Keio
Link: liability
Link: trademark
Link: document use
Link: software licensing
Link: public
Link: Member
