nav: Demo site menu
List item: Home
Link: Home
List item: Before
Link: Before
List item: After
Link: After
List item: Info
Link: Info
main: Accessible University Accessible University (AU) is a fictional university home page designed to demonstrate a variety of common web design problems that result in visitors with disabilities being unable to access content or features. AU was originally developed by AccessIT and is maintained by AccessComputing, both projects based out of the University of Washington. Use the AU site to: demonstrate common web accessibility principles at trainings, presentations, and workshops on accessible web design. learn common web accessibility problems and solutions in an easy-to-understand way. Available on GitHub Index of Accessible University Pages Before - This inaccessible page demonstrates common web accessibility issues using the fictitious AU home page. See how many web accessibility problems you can identify. NOTE: Since the purpose of this page is to demonstrate inaccessible web design, certain features are inherently inaccessible to some groups of users. After - This accessible page is a modified version of the Before page, with all accessibility issues fixed. Info - This page provides an explanation of all issues demonstrated on the AU home page, including problems, solutions, and links to additional resources. Additional Files for Demonstrating Document Accessibility In addition to the AU web pages, we have created two sets of digital documents that can be used for demonstrating document accessibility issues in presentations and workshops. Links are provided below for downloading the files. For details about each file, see the Document Accessibility Samples web page. Syllabus Each of the files in this section contains the same content, a syllabus from a fictional Introduction to Physics course, provided in Microsoft Word and PDF formats, with varying levels of accessibility. HTML version - Accessible Word version - Not accessible Word version - Accessible PDF version - Scanned PDF version - Not Accessible PDF version - Accessible Presentation The files in this section are both PowerPoint files, with and without accessibility problems. PowerPoint - Not accessible PowerPoint - Accessible
Heading level 1: Accessible University
Paragraph: Accessible University (AU) is a fictional university home page designed to demonstrate a variety of common web design problems that result in visitors with disabilities being unable to access content or features. AU was originally developed by AccessIT and is maintained by AccessComputing, both projects based out of the University of Washington. Use the AU site to:
Link: AccessIT
Link: AccessComputing
List item: demonstrate common web accessibility principles at trainings, presentations, and workshops on accessible web design.
List item: learn common web accessibility problems and solutions in an easy-to-understand way.
Paragraph: Available on GitHub
Link: GitHub
Heading level 2: Index of Accessible University Pages
List item: Before - This inaccessible page demonstrates common web accessibility issues using the fictitious AU home page. See how many web accessibility problems you can identify. NOTE: Since the purpose of this page is to demonstrate inaccessible web design, certain features are inherently inaccessible to some groups of users.
Link: Before
List item: After - This accessible page is a modified version of the Before page, with all accessibility issues fixed.
Link: After
List item: Info - This page provides an explanation of all issues demonstrated on the AU home page, including problems, solutions, and links to additional resources.
Link: Info
Heading level 2: Additional Files for Demonstrating Document Accessibility
Paragraph: In addition to the AU web pages, we have created two sets of digital documents that can be used for demonstrating document accessibility issues in presentations and workshops. Links are provided below for downloading the files. For details about each file, see the Document Accessibility Samples web page.
Link: Document Accessibility Samples
Heading level 3: Syllabus
Paragraph: Each of the files in this section contains the same content, a syllabus from a fictional Introduction to Physics course, provided in Microsoft Word and PDF formats, with varying levels of accessibility.
List item: HTML version - Accessible
Link: HTML version - Accessible
List item: Word version - Not accessible
Link: Word version - Not accessible
List item: Word version - Accessible
Link: Word version - Accessible
List item: PDF version - Scanned
Link: PDF version - Scanned
List item: PDF version - Not Accessible
Link: PDF version - Not Accessible
List item: PDF version - Accessible
Link: PDF version - Accessible
Heading level 3: Presentation
Paragraph: The files in this section are both PowerPoint files, with and without accessibility problems.
List item: PowerPoint - Not accessible
Link: PowerPoint - Not accessible
List item: PowerPoint - Accessible
Link: PowerPoint - Accessible
footer: Accessible University by University of Washington is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. This product was originally developed with support from the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research of the U.S. Department of Education (grant #H133D010306), and has been subsequently updated and maintained with support from the National Science Foundation (grants #CNS-0540615, CNS-0837508, CNS-1042260, CNS-1539179, and CNS-2137312). The contents do not necessarily represent the policies of the U.S. federal government, and you should not assume their endorsement.
Link:
Link: University of Washington
Link: Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License
Paragraph: This product was originally developed with support from the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research of the U.S. Department of Education (grant #H133D010306), and has been subsequently updated and maintained with support from the National Science Foundation (grants #CNS-0540615, CNS-0837508, CNS-1042260, CNS-1539179, and CNS-2137312). The contents do not necessarily represent the policies of the U.S. federal government, and you should not assume their endorsement.
